Describe Client/Issuer penalization by Attester (#10)
ietf-wg-privacypass/draft-ietf-privacypass-rate-limit-tokens: draft-ietf-privacypass-rate-limit-tokens.md

<Bytes containing the TokenRequest>
~~~

### Attester behavior

> Upon receiving a request from a Client, the Attester first performs any required
> attestation checks of the Client, as well as checking if the Client has been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon receiving a request from a Client, the Attester checks if the Client has been
```

It's possible that attestation isn't done _inline_ like this, so I think this section should just focus on the penalization behavior.

penalized based on incorrect behavior using this protocol (see {{penalization}}).

> If the Attester does not trust the Client, it rejects the request with an appropriate
> HTTP 4xx error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Client is not trusted, the Attester rejects the request with an appropriate HTTP 4xx error.
```

> The Attester determines the Issuer name from the "issuer" variable in the request.
> If this Issuer is not known to or trusted by the Attester, including if the Issuer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this Issuer for the token request is not known to or trusted by the Attester, including if the Issuer
```

If the Attester detects this Client has changed their Client Key more frequently than allowed
as described in {{attester-state}}, it SHOULD reject the request without forwarding it to
the Issuer, and also use this event to penalize the Client (see {{penalization}}).

## Attester-to-Issuer Request {#request-two}

The Attester and the Issuer MUST use a secure and Issuer-authenticated HTTPS
connection for all requests. Also, Issuers MUST authenticate Attesters, either via mutual
TLS or another form of application-layer authentication. They MAY additionally use
mechanisms such as TLS certificate pinning, to mitigate the risk of channel

> compromise; see {{sec-considerations}} for additional about this channel.

Reviewer: Can we file an issue against the architecture draft to move this text there? We could then replace this text with "see architecture document about requirements for this channel."

Author: The architecture doesn't require the attester and issuer to be back-to-back connected though?

Reviewer: It doesn't, but we talk about the requirements when they are split like this, so it seems like a good place to put that text.

<Bytes containing the encrypted_token_response>
~~~

### Attester behavior

For all non-successful responses from the Issuer, the Attester forwards the HTTP
response unmodified to the Client as the response to the original request for this issuance.

Upon receipt of a successful (2xx) response from the Issuer, the Attester extracts the
"Sec-Token-Origin" header, and uses the value to determine Anonymous Issuer Origin ID
as described in {{attester-output-anon-issuer-origin-id}}.

If the "Sec-Token-Origin" header is missing in a successful (2xx) response from the
Issuer, the Attester MUST count this towards penalizing the Issuer (see {{penalization}}).
The token response MUST continue to be processed, however, to prevent a malicious
Issuer from using a token issuance failure as a signal to the requesting Origin.

If the Anonymous Issuer Origin ID derived from the value in the "Sec-Token-Origin" header

> was previously received in a response for a different Anonymous Origin ID within the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
was previously received in a response for a request with a different Anonymous Origin ID within the
```

} Token;
~~~

## Penalization of Invalid Clients and Issuers {#penalization}

When an Attester encounters incorrect and potentially malicious behavior
by either Clients or Issuers, it needs to "penalize" them. This involves
keeping state about invalid protocol events, and determining when a
particular Client or Issuer has exceeded a threshold for such events.

Each category of invalid events can have a different threshold, and can apply
to Clients, Issuers, or both. Different penalization events are described
below, with suggested thresholds. This list is not exhaustive.

> - Client Key changing more than once over any two consecutive policy windows
> for a single Client, based on the Attester's view of Client identity.
> This is a Client-specific penalization event. A RECOMMENDED threshold for
> penalizing the Client based on this is one event.
> 
> - Issuer responses missing the "Sec-Token-Origin" header on a 2xx response.
> This is an Issuer-specific penalization event. A RECOMMENDED threshold for
> penalizing the Issuer based on this is ten events across all Clients.
> 
> - Anonymous Issuer Origin ID (from Issuer) collision across two Anonymous
> Origin IDs for a particular Client within a single policy window. This
> penalization event is applicable for both Clients and Issuers. A RECOMMENDED
> threshold for penalizing the Issuer is ten events across all Clients.
> A RECOMMENDED threshold for penalizing the Client is two events across multiple
> Issuers, or five events with a single Issuer.

Author: ```suggestion
- Client Key changing more than once over any two consecutive policy windows
for a single Client, based on the Attester's view of Client identity.
This is a Client-specific penalization event. A RECOMMENDED threshold for
penalizing the Client based on this is one event; a well-behaved
Client will never change keys this frequently.

- Issuer responses missing the "Sec-Token-Origin" header on a 2xx response.
This is an Issuer-specific penalization event. A RECOMMENDED threshold for
penalizing the Issuer based on this is ten events across all Clients; a
well-behaved Issuer will never generate such responses, but it can be
useful for an Attester to have a small tolerance for errors before penalizing
an Issuer entirely.

- Anonymous Issuer Origin ID (from Issuer) collision across two Anonymous
Origin IDs for a particular Client within a single policy window. This
penalization event is applicable for both Clients and Issuers. A RECOMMENDED
threshold for penalizing the Issuer is ten events across different Clients.
A RECOMMENDED threshold for penalizing the Client is two events across multiple
Issuers, or five events with a single Issuer. If many events are seen for a single
Issuer, it is likely that the Issuer is compromised or malicious; while if such events
are seen for a specific Client, it is likely that the Client is is compromised or
malicious.
```

} Token;
~~~

> ## Penalization of Invalid Clients and Issuers {#penalization}

Reviewer 2: Maybe worth splitting into two sections (one for client and one for issuers) or at least subsections?

Author: I'd prefer to keep these together, since some of the penalizations apply to both/either

When an Attester encounters incorrect and potentially malicious behavior
by either Clients or Issuers, it needs to "penalize" them. This involves
keeping state about invalid protocol events, and determining when a
particular Client or Issuer has exceeded a threshold for such events.

Each category of invalid events can have a different threshold, and can apply
to Clients, Issuers, or both. Different penalization events are described
below, with suggested thresholds. This list is not exhaustive.

> - Client Key changing more than once over any two consecutive policy windows.

Reviewer 2: Maybe worth clarifying how you identify (using the attester identity) the two different client keys are presented by the same "client".

Author: ```suggestion
- Client Key changing more than once over any two consecutive policy windows
for a single Client, based on the Attester's view of Client identity.
```

> This is a Client-specific penalization event. A suggested threshold for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a Client-specific penalization event. A RECOMMENDED threshold for
```

penalizing the Client based on this is one event.

- Issuer responses missing the "Sec-Token-Origin" header on a 2xx response.

> This is an Issuer-specific penalization event. A suggested threshold for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an Issuer-specific penalization event. A RECOMMENDED threshold for
```

> penalizing the Issuer based on this is ten events across all Clients.

Reviewer 2: Might be useful to have some rationalization for the suggested thresholds, since some of these seem slightly arbitary, or at least a way for attesters to make their own determination about acceptable thresholds.

Author: Added!

- Anonymous Issuer Origin ID (from Issuer) collision across two Anonymous

> Client IDs for a particular Client within a single policy window. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Origin IDs for a particular Client within a single policy window. This
```

> penalization event is applicable for both Clients and Issuers. A suggested

Reviewer: ```suggestion
penalization event is applicable for both Clients and Issuers. A RECOMMENDED
```

threshold for penalizing the Issuer is ten events across all Clients.

> A suggested threshold for penalizing the Client is two events across multiple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A RECOMMENDED threshold for penalizing the Client is two events across multiple
```

Issuers, or five events with a single Issuer.

Once a Client or Issuer passes the threshold for penalization, the Attester

> rejects future requests from that Client or for that Issuer. This SHOULD

Reviewer 2: Is there some sort of indicator to the client that the issuer has been penalized? Or does it just appear to clients that they're no longer trusted?

Reviewer: I don't think that signal is useful for the client to see since they don't trust the issuer by default anyway, but maybe there's a use case for it?

Author: I think this could be a bit proprietary — how the attester wants to reject clients beyond just an HTTP response code.
